# {{ pml.full_name }} 0.5.0 ({{ date.v0_5_0 }})

We are pleased to announce the Minimum Viable Product (MVP) release of {{ pml.full_name }} (PML). This new powerful and open-source tool addresses one of the challenging tasks DBAs have: migration of mission-critical MongoDB deployments with minimized downtime and ensured data consistency. {{ pml.full_name }} aims to simplify this process, being a solution for zero-downtime data migration and real-time replication between MongoDB deployments that are either Percona Server for MongoDB instances, MongoDB Community/Advanced versions, or even cloud-based Atlas clusters.

This release focuses on core capabilities providing a solid foundation for your migration needs. We're counting on your expertise and feedback to help us shape its future.

## What's in this release?

This release features the following core capabilities:

* **Data clone**: Full data copy with parallel processing and batch operations
* **Real-time replication**: PML uses [change streams]() to capture and replicate data changes in real-time, keeping your target synchronized with the source
* **Guaranteed event ordering and consistency**: PML applies changes to the target in the same order they occurred on the source, maintaining data integrity.
* **Data and index integrity**: Support for all index types, including TTL.
* **Transaction support**: Basic handling for multi-document transactions.
* **Standardized secure connections** via standard MongoDB connection strings with SASL authentication for secure communication.
* **Broad compatibility**: Support for data migration and replication from MongoDB Community/Advanced, and Atlas to Percona Server for MongoDB. 
* **Simple management**: Basic CLI commands for start, pause, resume, finalize, and status monitoring
* **API**: Start, finalize, pause, resume, and check replication status via HTTP endpoints.
* **Detailed logging**: Comprehensive logging enables you to monitor the migration process and assists in troubleshooting.

## Supported versions and deployments:

{{ pml.full_name }} is available for replica set to replica set synchronization within the same major MongoDB versions (6.0 to 6.0, 7.0 to 7.0, 8.0 to 8.0).

Minimum patch versions: 6.0.17, 7.0.13, 8.0.0 respectively.

Check other [limitations](../limitations.md)

## Get started

Check out our [installation guide](../install/source.md) and follow the step-by-step instructions to get started with PML. The tool is designed to be straightforward to set up and use, even for those new to MongoDB migration tools.

## Join us in shaping the future of Percona MongoLink!

This MVP release is just the beginning. Your real-world experience and feedback are invaluable as we evolve Percona MongoLink. We encourage you to explore PML for your non-production migration scenarios and share your insights:

* What challenges did it solve for you?
* What features would you like to see next?
* How can we make it even better for your specific use cases?



